OSDOCS#2464: Adjusting assessment of update risks, including force (#66149)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/update-preparing-forced-update-risk.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * updating/preparing_for_updates/updating-cluster-prepare.adoc

:_content-type: CONCEPT
[id="update-preparing-forced-update-risk"]
= Assessing the risk of forced updates

If there is no other way left to update a cluster, you can "force" an update by using the `force` option in the CLI. It's important to understand the risks of performing a "forced" update to determine if this decision outweighs the potential risks. 

The Cluster Version Operator (CVO) runs precondition checks before starting an update. It checks if the cluster has the `Upgradeable=false` status condition, or if the cluster has any other some warning condition. Using `force` will ignore these checks.

> 

Author: Good call - updated the order and added a bit. :)

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * updating/preparing_for_updates/updating-cluster-prepare.adoc

:_content-type: CONCEPT
[id="update-preparing-forced-update-risk"]
= Assessing the risk of forced updates

> If there is no other way left to update a cluster, you can "force" an update by using the `force` option in the CLI. It's important to understand the risks of performing a forced update to determine if this decision outweighs the potential risks. 

Reviewer: IMO we should replace `force` with `--force`. Also for awareness here is text from OC

```
$ oc adm upgrade --help

 The cluster may report that the upgrade should not be performed due to a content verification error or update
precondition failures such as operators blocking upgrades. Do not upgrade to images that are not appropriately signed
without understanding the risks of upgrading your cluster to untrusted code. If you must override this protection use
the --force flag.

--force=false:
	Forcefully upgrade the cluster even when upgrade release image validation fails and the cluster is reporting
	errors.
```

Author: Sounds good! Done :)

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * updating/preparing_for_updates/updating-cluster-prepare.adoc

:_content-type: CONCEPT
[id="update-preparing-forced-update-risk"]
= Assessing the risk of forced updates

If there is no other way to update a cluster, you can "force" an update by using the `--force` option in the CLI, which allows you to forcefully upgrade the cluster even when upgrade release image validation fails and the cluster is reporting errors.

The following text will be returned by using the `$ oc adm upgrade --help` command in the CLI:

`The cluster may report that the upgrade should not be performed due to a content verification error or update
precondition failures such as operators blocking upgrades. Do not upgrade to images that are not appropriately signed
without understanding the risks of upgrading your cluster to untrusted code. If you must override this protection use

> the --force flag.`

Reviewer 2: These are the output of 4.13 oc and earlier. With 4.14 oc, it returns

```
 Cluster-side guards include checks for release verification and upgradeable conditions. Again, it is usually best to give these conditions time to resolve, or to actively work to resolve them.  But if you decide to trigger the update regardless of these concerns, use --force, which is passed through to ClusterVersion's spec.desiredUpdate.force.
```

Author: updated :)

It's important to understand the consequences of performing a forced update to determine if this decision outweighs the potential risks. 

> The Cluster Version Operator (CVO) runs precondition checks before starting an update to determine if the cluster has the `Upgradeable=false` status condition, or any other warning condition.

Reviewer 2: Besides, CVO verifies the target release signature. If the verification fails, we will get `ReleaseAccepted=False` condition. e.g.

```
# oc adm upgrade 
warning: Cannot display available updates:
  Reason: VersionNotFound
  Message: Unable to retrieve available updates: currently reconciling cluster version 4.13.0-0.nightly-2023-10-14-180128 not found in the "stable-4.13" channel

Cluster version is 4.13.0-0.nightly-2023-10-14-180128

Upgradeable=False

  Reason: AdminAckRequired
  Message: Kubernetes 1.27 and therefore OpenShift 4.14 remove several APIs which require admin consideration. Please see the knowledge article https://access.redhat.com/articles/6958395 for details and instructions.

ReleaseAccepted=False

  Reason: RetrievePayload
  Message: Retrieving payload failed version="" image="registry.ci.openshift.org/ocp/release@sha256:3c5976a39479e11395334f1705dbd3b56580cd1dcbd514a34d9c796b0a0d9f8e" failure=The update cannot be verified: unable to verify sha256:3c5976a39479e11395334f1705dbd3b56580cd1dcbd514a34d9c796b0a0d9f8e against keyrings: verifier-public-key-redhat

Upstream is unset, so the cluster will use an appropriate default.
Channel: stable-4.13
```

Author: included a reference to the release signature verification :)

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * updating/preparing_for_updates/updating-cluster-prepare.adoc

> :_content-type: CONCEPT

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
:_mod-docs-content-type: CONCEPT
```

[id="update-preparing-forced-update-risk"]
= Assessing the risk of forced updates

> If there is no other way to update a cluster, you can "force" an update by using the `--force` option in the CLI, which allows you to forcefully upgrade the cluster even when upgrade release image validation fails and the cluster is reporting errors.

Reviewer 4: If we're talking about updates when _not_ referring to `oc adm upgrade`, `Upgradeable=false`, or other contexts where the word "upgrade" is hard coded into something, we should use "update" instead of "upgrade":
```suggestion
If there is no other way to update a cluster, you can "force" an update by using the `--force` option in the CLI, which allows you to forcefully update the cluster even when update release image validation fails and the cluster is reporting errors.
```

> If there is no other way to update a cluster, you can "force" an update by using the `--force` option in the CLI, which allows you to forcefully update the cluster even when the update release image validation fails and the cluster is reporting errors.

Reviewer 3: Suggest italics based on IBMSG: https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/ibm-style?topic=punctuation-quotation-marks#emphasis

```suggestion
If there is no other way to update a cluster, you can _force_ an update by using the `--force` option in the CLI, which allows you to forcefully update the cluster even when the update release image validation fails and the cluster is reporting errors.
```

[IMPORTANT]
====

> Use of --force is not recommended for updates. Please read the whole section to understand the risks of using force for updates.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Use of `--force` is not recommended for updates. Please read the whole section to understand the risks of using `--force` for updates.
```

> ====

Reviewer: > Setting a CVO override (such as using `--force`) puts the entire cluster in an unsupported state. Reported issues must be reproduced after removing any overrides for support to proceed.

This is not correct from technical and support point view.

Here is the suggested text: 
`Use of --force is not recommended for updates. Please read the whole section to understand the risks of using force for updates.`

> The following text will be returned by using the `$ oc adm upgrade --help` command in the CLI:

Reviewer 3: Suggest staying away from future tense: https://docs.engineering.redhat.com/display/CCSENABLE/Future+tense

```suggestion
The following text is returned when using the `$ oc adm upgrade --help` command in the CLI:
```

> The following text will be returned by using the `$ oc adm upgrade --help` command in the CLI:

Reviewer 3: As a whole/from a content perspective, I think that this reads weird. First we're talking about using force, and then we go into using the `$ oc adm upgrade --help` command. I know that there's a relationship here by filling in some missing gaps, but I wonder if relationship between the necessity of this command + forced upgrading could be made clearer to make the content flow better (note that this is just me being nitpicky). 

I almost think it would be best organized as follow, though take it or leave it as you will. I think even this could be slightly revised to remove content (namely the two sentences about the CVO, because I think the same message gets across if you cut that part out and just say "Bypassing verification failure. . ."), but this way keeps all of the content that you already wrote. 

```suggestion
When updating a cluster, it's essential to understand the available options and their implications. For detailed information on cluster updates and available options, you can refer to the command-line documentation using the following command:

[source,terminal]
----
$ oc adm upgrade --help
----

When running this command, the following information is returned:

[source,terminal]
----
`Cluster-side guards include checks for release verification and upgradeable conditions. Again, it is usually best to give these conditions time to resolve, or to actively work to resolve them. But if you decide to trigger the update regardless of these concerns, use --force, which is passed through to ClusterVersion’s spec.desiredUpdate.force.`
----

If you find that you cannot resolve the conditions that are blocking your update, you can _force_ an update by using the `--force` option in the CLI. This allows you to forcefully update the cluster even when the update release image validation fails and the cluster is reporting errors.

The Cluster Version Operator (CVO) runs precondition checks before starting an update to determine if the cluster has the `Upgradeable=false` status condition, or any other warning condition. For example, the CVO verifies the target release signature and if the verification fails, the CVO returns `ReleaseAccepted=False`. Bypassing verification failure and forcing an update comes with potential risks, including downtime or data loss. 

Use caution when upgrading a cluster with the `--force` option.

```

= Assessing the risk of forced updates

When updating a cluster, it's essential to understand the available options and their implications. For detailed information on cluster updates and available options, you can refer to the command-line documentation using the following command:

[source,terminal]
----
$ oc adm upgrade --help
----

When running this command, the following information is included:

[source,terminal]
----
`Cluster-side guards include checks for release verification and upgradeable conditions. Again, it is usually best to give these conditions time to resolve, or to actively work to resolve them.  But if you decide to trigger the update regardless of these concerns, use --force, which is passed through to ClusterVersion's spec.desiredUpdate.force.`
----
It's important to understand the consequences of performing a forced update to determine if this decision outweighs the potential risks.
If there is no other way to update a cluster, you can _force_ an update by using the `--force` option in the CLI, which allows you to forcefully update the cluster even when the update release image validation fails and the cluster is reporting errors.

[IMPORTANT]
====

> Use the `--force` option with caution. Only use `--force` if there are no other ways to update the cluster and if you are willing to accept the risks of waiving signature checks and other critical guards. 

Reviewer 3: Alternatively, I think we could say "flag. eg, "Only use the `--force` flag. . ."

```suggestion
Use the `--force` option with caution. Only use the`--force` option if there are no other ways to update the cluster and if you are willing to accept the risks of waiving signature checks and other critical guards. 
```

====

The Cluster Version Operator (CVO) runs precondition checks before starting an update to determine if the cluster has the `Upgradeable=false` status condition, or any other warning condition. For example, the CVO verifies the target release signature and if the verification fails, the CVO returns `ReleaseAccepted=False`.

> Using `--force` will ignore the safety checks of an update, resulting in potential downtime or data loss.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Using the`--force` option ignores the safety checks of an update, resulting in potential downtime or data loss.
```
